Java new features (#2)
koushikkothagal/reveal.js: content/java-interview-questions-2/4-new-java-features.md

## Question
# Which version of Java have you worked on ?
--
# Answer
- you can explain whatever java version you have used like java 8,9,10 or 11.
- out of these java 8 and java 11 are the long term support versions and most of the questions will be on these 2 versions.

> ---

Reviewer: I'd skip this question. The LTS point is interesting, so maybe this can be a separate question

> # Can you explain new features of java 8 ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Can you mention the features that were introduced in Java 8?
```

Reviewer: Java 8 is no longer new. So, I've changed it to features introduced.

--
# Answer
- Default and static methods in interface
- lambda and functional interfaces
- Stream API
- Collections improved
- Date time API is improved
- Java IO operations improved
---

# What is functional interface ?
--
# Answer

>  - Functional interfaces are those which has only one abstract method but can have multiple implemented methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Functional interfaces are interfaces which have only one abstract method but can have multiple implemented methods. 
```

 - It's also called as SAM(single abstract method). 
 - Functional interfaces enable the use of lambda expressions. 
 - We can use @FunctionalInterface annotation for these interfaces.
---

> # Why the static or default methods in interface are introduced in Java 8 ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Why were default methods added to the interface in Java 8?
```

--
# Answer

>  -  In the java old version there is a lot of use of interfaces, and to provide the backword compatibility for these interfaces, default methods are introduced. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 -  Allows addition of new methods to old interfaces 
 - This prevents old implementations from breaking because of compiler errors due to unimplemented methods
```

>  - Static methods are also same only thing you can not override that method so it kind of provide new feature 

Reviewer: Please remove this. Let's make the question only about default methods. Static interface methods are for a different reason, and doesn't go well with the default methods question.

---

> # Can you explain few stream operations ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What are the two types of stream operators?
```

--
# Answer

>  - Stream operations are typically divided into 2 parts
>  - Intermediate operations returns only Stream object, while terminal operations returns some definite type of object.
>    1) Intermediate operations     - filter(), map(), flatmap()
>    2) Terminal operations         - anyMatch(), allMatch(), collect()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Intermediate operations: return another Stream object(Example: `filter()`, `map()`, `flatmap()`)
- Terminal operations: return a non-Stream type (Example: `anyMatch()`, `allMatch()`, `collect()`)
```

 
---

> # Can you differentiate between sequential stream and parallel stream ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Can you differentiate between sequential streams and parallel streams?
```

--
# Answer

>   - primary difference between these streams is that sequential stream processes the data in sequencial order while parallel stream processes data in random order. 
>   - Parallel stream makes use of processor cores for processing the data, so parallel stream will work effectively when your machine has multiple cores.
>   - Also you should use parallel stream when have very large data to process and tasks are independant.
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sequential streams: Full stream processed by one thread. Parallel streams: could be processed by multiple threads / cores
- Sequential streams: Data processed in order. Parallel streams: Random order

---
```

# What is Optional and why do we need it ?
--
# Answer

>   - Optional is new class introduced in Java8, it provides way to handle the nulls in program. 
>   - As we are working on objects there is a chance that we could have null objects in our program, which causes NullPointerException as effect it will terminate the program. 
>     This is big issue if it's production environment, to prevent these kind of incident Optional is introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Java API that provides a way to handle the `null` object references during execution
  - Introduced in Java 8
  - Runtime benefit: Provides the ability to safely examine if a certain reference is `null` before accessing it
  - Coding time benefit: Provides the ability to clearly call out that a certain reference could potentially be `null`
```

---

# What is the change in Date time APIs ?
--
# Answer
  - Old API was not a thread safe and has less operations. 
  - In Java 8 date time API we have multiple operations and flexibility, it also introduced the zoned date time.

> ---

Reviewer: This question seems ambiguous. Maybe a better question would be about the new DateTime APIs

> # What is Lambda expression and why it's introduced ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What is a Lambda expression and why is it useful?
```

--
# Answer

>   - Lambda expression is nothing but a piece of code or you can a small logic which can be provided as parameter to a method. 
>   - Syntax of lambda is as below
>     ``` 
>     () -> { statement;} 
>     ```
>   - Lambda expression is very powerfull feature, it allows use to execute code/logic without creating the object of the class. 
>   - Also to enable the use of functional interfaces we need lambda expression. This is way of functional programming and java is heading towards functional programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lambda expression is a Java syntax that allows you to treat functionality as values, method arguments or data
- Enables us to pass code as values to methods and dynamically use them in the code
- Syntax shortcut for anonymous classes or inline class implementations
- Enables functional programming coding style in Java
```

---

# how do you break the forEach loop of stream ?
--
# Answer

---
# What is Predicate ?
--
# Answer

---

# What is Consumer function ?
--
# Answer

> 

Reviewer: Please remove any questions that don't have answers. We can add them when they are ready.
